All right, so we are getting feedback.
I kind of expected that earlier.
It was really hot and I don't know
why, but Noah will figure that out
because he's the genius back there.
Thanks, Noah.
excited about week three of our evangelism
series called Practical Evangelism.
And, we have decided to walk through
the idea behind practical evangelism
because of just really thinking
through as a church in the season
that we are knowing also that Easter's
coming, just this challenge to be
able to get, a little bit more, what
I would say comfortable with sharing
our faith, inviting people to church.
And as I begin to just think.
My own personal experiences
with evangelism.
it's been messy over the years
because there's a lot of pressure
that you feel in sharing your faith.
And why do we share our faith and how do
we do it and how do we not screw this up?
Because if I say the wrong thing or if I
don't know, have all the right answers,
then somebody's gonna make fun of me
or I'm gonna be embarrassed, or they're
not gonna know how to come to Christ
and all those things under our head.
Okay?
and what I also know, and this
is what I've learned as well, is.
Some of you may say, well, none
of that comes to my mind because
I don't even feel like that.
That's my role.
That's not even part of my life
to even need to share my faith.
And so, we, we really started with last
week, just a couple of of different
things of asking the reason why, and
actually it was a couple weeks ago.
Why do we share our faith?
And, you know, this is something that
I, I've really, as I processed through
this week, is we can talk about ways
to practically share our faith, but
if we don't desire to share our.
Or understand why we share our faith.
We can have all the tools and
never even care to use them.
Does that make sense?
I mean, you, you guys may be a lot like me
whenever I got married, one of the things
that they got me for my wedding gift was
this like toolbox full of a lot of tools.
And I get this and I'm like,
what am I gonna do with these?
And some of you guys are laughing
at me right now because you're like,
you should know what tools are.
I do know what the basic tools
are, but some of 'em, I was like,
will I ever use Allen wrenches?
I mean, , I mean, and so what I mean
by that is you get this toolbox, and
that may be you in the last couple
weeks you've been sitting here
listening to practical evangelism.
You get this toolbox and you're
like, what am I gonna use this for?
I don't need to share my faith.
Well, later on in life, I learned
I needed all those things in the
toolbox and I need to go buy more.
And my hope is, that you will need some
of these things as well to help you
in your ability to share your faith.
And you begin to see that God has equipped
you and designed you and called you to
share your faith with those around you.
Let me just kind of
catch you up on the why.
So we, we started thinking through
why did we share our faith?
Number one, if you've given your life to
Christ, it is what God calls us to do.
And for some of you that
may sound like a chore.
and what I would say is that God
called you for a purpose, right?
it's a statement of how
did you hear the gospel?
If you gave your life to Christ,
how'd you hear the gospel?
Somebody had to share.
, some of you may be the very few
that just jumped in the word of God
and the Word of God convicted you
and you gave your life to Christ.
But those of you who have have
probably heard it from someone.
So I would say this, God calls us to
do that because how will they hear?
How will somebody else hear
if we don't share the gospel?
Number two, it is a natural outflow
of our relationship with Jesus.
I would just say this, that when we
spend time with God, if we have a
relationship with Jesus, it naturally
comes out of our life to share our faith
because it is just something that we.
number three we talked about it's because
we understand the consequences of sin
and we understand the consequences
of living separated from God.
And so because I call that conviction,
we are convicted, that we need
to share of faith because we know
those that don't know Christ.
the consequences of living in
eternity separated from God.
And the last one is, I would say
this is the major one, the desire.
we desire to see people experience
a same relationship with Jesus.
And, and it comes back to this as
if God has so transformed your life.
If, and I say that, If God has so
transformed your life, you desire for
other people to be transformed as well.
Amen.
I would hope so.
And, and, and where you may stand,
and I'm kind of gonna take a little
extra time on this and I'm, I'm
really thinking through this.
You may be in a season of your faith where
you don't have that desire to share your
faith, because right now you're struggling
with the desire to follow Jesus.
and some of us may not honestly want to
admit that we have had struggles with sh
with, with just a relationship with Jesus.
we, we believe, but we've had struggles.
And so I want to just un, I
wanna sit with you just for a
minute and say, Hey, I get it.
Even as a pastor, there are moments
where I'm like, man, I'm just
struggling with my own faith,
let alone the desire to go share.
and so if you're in that season
number one, God sees you, God cares.
You're not the only one.
The enemy wants you to
think you're the only one.
But my prayer is that in that season
that you are struggling, that you
will dive deeper into the Lord and
you will strive to cling to the Lord
and that the Lord guide you in this.
And then also what I would say at
times, whenever I am shirling with my
own personal faith, getting my eyes off
of me and getting my eyes on others.
has helped me overcome that as well
because then I start seeing people who
don't know Christ and I start realizing
how much I do have and how much the
Lord has been present in my life.
and so let me just kind of catch
you up on what we have talked
about with practical evangels.
In week one, we talked about the
following Jesus and his example is one
of the greatest ways to share our faith.
When we looked into the word we saw,
Jesus gave one of the greatest examples
of how to share his faith, right?
How to share who he was with
other people and the result of.
But what we also saw is that the
more and more time that we spend
with Jesus, it becomes a natural
response to share our faith.
And, and I would say this has
anybody here, and maybe you
haven't been, but has anybody here
been watching N NCAA basketball?
The last couple days?
If you filled out a bracket,
anybody filled out a bracket?
Okay.
If you filled out a bracket,
you're probably talking to somebody
else to fill out a bracket.
Right?
And it's the simple things.
You literally, you know, I like,
I don't really care about basket.
But I do right now because I filled
out a bracket and my son Sterling,
who's five who I just told him the
names of the teams and he wrote down,
he told me which one to write down.
Picked the 16 to beat the one . Just
telling you, it's all luck.
But I'll just tell you this, it's
got me into a lot of conversations
because I've spent time thinking
about it, watching some of the
games and having conversations.
So when we spend time with
Jesus, it is a natural out.
Of, our lives.
And whenever you're, again, we go back to
this idea of sharing our faith is scary.
I really started thinking
about this this week.
Matthew 10 19 through 20 says this, don't
worry about what you are to speak for.
You will be given what to say at that hour
because it isn't you speaking, but the
spirit of your father who is speaking.
And so when we do have that fear
of what to say, remember that the
Lord is the one who guides us.
So our goal from week one is for.
that the key to sharing our faith is to
have a daily relationship with Jesus.
That's where it starts, right?
And then we begin to kind of grow into
that The following week, which was
last week, week two, we said this, that
the importance of living in community,
is, is how we are able to effectively
evangelize or to share our faith.
And so we learned two.
number one, living in community encourages
us and prepares us to share our faith.
Living in community prepares us and
encourages us to share our faith.
And so when we looked at Acts chapter
two, we saw a couple of things.
Number one, that the community that they
devoted themselves to, that they were
inspired and encouraged in their faith.
Number two, that they were able to
experience peace within and unity
within the group that they spent time.
They also saw, people's
needs being met, right?
And, and how generous people were.
And because of the things that they
experienced in this community, it prepared
them to share with the world around them
the things that they were experiencing.
It was the overflow.
So as they spent time together, the
world saw what was happening and they
begin to share what was happening more.
And then we learned the second part here
is that living a community, Gives us
opportunities to practically evangelize.
What we saw in Acts chapter two was
the Lord gave favor to the people who
were gathering together consistently.
People who were gathering together
consistently, who were meeting and being
in peace and encouraging and inspiring
one another and challenging one another.
God gave favor to all people, and then
it says that there was many who were
coming to faith in Christ because of
that community gathering together.
So we were challenged by this.
Of seeing the value and the importance
of living in community with one another.
Right?
So following Jesus helps
us share our faith.
Living in community gives us opportunities
and prepares us to share our faith.
And this, and this is this moment.
I know we're gonna talk more
today about it, but you ever
wonder if something's gonna work?
You ever have somebody tell you if you'll
do this, this, and this, it's gonna work?
And they're like, I don't know.
And, and, and my my thing
is, is if you ever wonder if.
It.
Can I share my faith?
Is somebody gonna actually
receive the gospel?
Is somebody gonna actually come to church?
Is somebody gonna actually make
sense of what I'm sharing with him?
I believe that if we even just
tried those first few things, we
begin to follow Jesus consistently.
We begin to live in community,
that God will give you the
opportunity to share your faith.
God will allow people to come
to faith in Christ through that.
And, and I always love this about God.
He says, try me, test me in.
And, and, and if you're anything like me,
I'd rather sometimes sit on the other side
and make up all the reasons why something
won't work rather than just trying it.
And typically, Brittany, my wife,
is usually the one that just
says, quit talking about it.
Just go do it.
And then you can figure it out after then.
And I'm like, oh, I guess that's right.
So I'm hoping that those first two
things encourage you, but this week
we're gonna discuss how serving others
will open the door for us to share.
Serving others will open the
door for us to share our faith.
And I love how God, really
worked this out this week for me.
We had a mission team.
If you were here last Sunday, we had a
mission team in from Knoxville, Tennessee.
They spent the week serving our community
and I could serve alongside them.
And I saw the result of serving our
community and how God opened the doors.
And so God used that this week
to be able to even drive right
into this message this week.
But I wanted to encourage you
with this before we jump into the.
That when we serve people, it's not
this idea behind bait and switch.
And, and let me give you kind of the,
the reason why this, I remember when we
first started reaching out to schools to
see if we could bring breakfast to them.
I had one school in particular that,
when I called them, they said, Hey,
yeah, we would love for you to bring
in breakfast and this is during kind
of the covid season, but you can't
come in and hand those sandwiches out.
So if, if that's what you have to have
where you come in and, and do that,
then then don't worry about bringing b.
And I just remember thinking what
they're saying is if you require,
like basically we'll give this
gift if you get to do this, and I'm
like, man, that's not the church.
We are, we're a church that
says, Hey, here you go.
And we just brought sandwiches,
son outside the door, walked away.
I didn't care about the credit, I
didn't care about getting in there
and being able to make sure we got
to share our faith with people.
It was all about serving.
So when we serve, it's not like
I'm gonna serve you to make
sure that I get Jesus to you.
I'm just serving, we're just
serving as a church, as the out.
Of our relationship with Jesus.
And then Jesus gives us the
opportunity to share our faith
because that's what he does.
So it's gonna be cool how we get to
see how God talks about this today
through His word, but then also some
examples in our church and in this
past week, about how God has done that.
So we're gonna be in Matthew.
I should have told you this beginning.
We're gonna be in Matthew chapter 20.
So I'll give you just a couple
of minutes to turn there.
Matthew chapter 20.
We will also have it up behind us.
So Matthew chapter 20,
we're gonna start in verse.
And the first few verses are not gonna
really make sense to you, but we're
gonna kind of summarize this and it's
gonna make sense of how all this drives
together, when it comes to serving.
So here we go.
Matthew chapter 20, starting
to in verse 20, it says this.
Then the mother, ABEB sons approached
him with her sons and she knelt
down to ask him for something.
Speaking of Jesus, what do you want?
He asked her, she said, promise.
Promise.
She said to him that these
two sons of mine may.
One on your right and one on your left
in the kingdom and Jesus answered,
you don't know what you're asking.
Are you able to drink the
cup that I'm about to drink?
And we are able, they said, and he
told them, you will indeed drink my
cup, but to sit on my right and to
sit on my left is not mine to give.
Instead it is for those whom it
has been prepared by my father.
And when the 10 disciples heard this,
they became indignant with the two other
brothers, and Jesus called them over and
said, you know that the rulers of the
Gentiles lorded over them and those in
high positions act as tyrants over them.
It must not be like this among you.
On the contrary, whoever wants to be
great among you must be your servant
and whoever wants to be first, you
must beat your slave just as the son
of man did not come to serve, but to
serve and to give his life as a ran.
Amening.
Let's take some time to pray.
Lord Jesus, we just thank
you, Lord, for today.
We thank you for your word and
we are praying, Lord, that our
hearts and minds are opened to what
you have to share with us today.
Lord, may we leave outta here changed
and inspired to go share our faith
through serving those around us, and
we pray this in your heaven name.
Amen.
So, so the first thing here that
we see in this text is we have been
called to serve, not to be served.
And the question is, Why?
So two questions.
Number one, if serving someone would
save their life, would you do it?
Wow, three people.
The rest of you just
rather let people die.
, I love, here's the thing, I know
you guys, this is in your mind.
You're going, I'm not raising my hand
cuz it doesn't really matter right now.
Somebody just died cuz you
wouldn't raise your hand.
. Wow.
There we go.
See?
Thanks.
Now he's got two hands.
He made one up for.
So let's just take it.
I say take it step down a little bit,
but I say this actually take a step up.
What if serving someone could lead
them to salvation, would you do it?
See, now, I would say most of you,
the first one makes logical sense
because death and life is a big deal.
But then when we think about eternity,
a lot of times it's like, well, if I
would serve them, as long as I wouldn't
be uncomfortable, I would serve them.
As long as it wouldn't cause
me to sacrifice too much.
Money, effort, whatever you name it and
you, the thing is, we don't, you're law
like me, we don't say this verbally.
If I was in a conversation,
you wouldn't admit that.
But internally we will say that
sometimes is where if, if, will I
serve someone, will I do something
and go above and beyond in order for
someone to come to faith in Christ?
And that's really the challenge
today, whenever Jesus is
challenging us through this word.
I wanna give you just kind
of an example of why serving
plays a big part of my heart.
So go back to my past church that I came.
It was a church where I
gave my life to Christ.
And the first year that we were
there, I sat under the gospel.
I, I didn't give my life to Christ.
But in that first year, we had
a young child, my daughter, and,
every single time we brought her
to the nursery, she would cry.
Anybody ever had that example?
I mean, everybody maybe here at
ic, you've had that happen before.
Every single time you bring your
kid to the nursery, they, they cry.
And here's what the nursery
workers would tell us.
Just leave her here for 10 minutes and if
she doesn't stop crying, we'll call you.
And it seemed like every.
, Peyton, our oldest daughter, would stay
in a little bit longer and a little bit
longer, and all of a sudden Peyton was
staying there the whole time and she
wasn't crying and she actually loved
it to the point where she didn't ever
want to leave children's ministry.
Well, in that year, of her going in there,
me and Brittany were able to send her to
the gospel for multiple weeks, multiple
weeks over and over and over again, and
eventually I gave my life to Christ.
And I started thinking this
week about how important nursery
workers' roles were in my s.
And I started thinking about
this, what they don't know, and,
and I never communicated to them.
And so I sent a text message to the
children's director there this week.
What they didn't know is because they
served and, and took a crying baby
and held her for 10 minutes and then
called us and then 15 and then 20.
And all of a sudden she loved it.
That because they served, I was
able to give my life to Christ.
To me, that is so impactful and
I speak about children's ministry
because it seems like we, it
seems like children's ministry.
, most of y'all tend to work
in there every other week.
It seems like you're making a difference.
not only in the lives of the parents
that get to sit in here to be able
to, to hear the gospel, but you're
making a difference in the kids' lives
because under that ministry, two of our
four kids gave their lives to Christ.
And so I think how critical, and I'm not
just children, my children's ministry,
it's every ministry, but serving can lead
to somebody giving their lives to Christ.
And sometimes we don't see that
impact because we're serving and
we walk away and we may never know.
This side of eternity, the
lives that we've impacted.
But one day I texted the children's
director this, this week, I said,
one day when you get to heaven,
you're gonna be able to lay the
crown of my salvation at the Lord's
feet because of what you've done.
And I wanted her to know that impact,
because I know that children's
director is rarely in service.
I know that children's director is
constantly getting text messages on Sunday
morning about people that can't work, and
she's constantly filling those roles and
she fills that pressure and she needed.
how important that was.
And so I wanted to just kind of
draw you guys in on the importance
of serving and why we serve.
And so I'm thankful for them.
And so let's kind of walk
through this text and see and
summarize this and get to this.
Let's get through this
first part here, here.
So versus 23, 24, basically this is the
disciples, kind of getting sidetracked.
With who was Jesus' favorite.
If you kind of have watched, if you've
ever walked the gospels and read them,
you see the disciples kind of trying to be
like, number one, number two with Jesus,
like buddy, buddy and, and, and wanting
to kind of be the, the elite in there.
And this is just another example and
we see here in the beginning right now
is the, these two sons, right, John
and James known as the Sons of Thunder.
and they were one.
Jesus, two closest three followers
that he had, and they were wanting to
be a part of, not just Jesus, two or
three on Earth, but in, in in heaven.
He, they wanted to be at
the right and the left.
And so what I believe, and I'm
looking at this, is they try to
convince their mom, mom, if you go
tell Jesus, Jesus will listen to you
because he'll listen to his mother.
And I'm guessing that's probably
why she went and told Jesus, Hey,
will they be able to sit at your
right and your left in the kingdom?
And he responds, that's up to God.
That's not up to him.
And so we see in verse 24 where
his, the other disciples heard what
was trying to happen here, right?
They were trying to get a leg up on the
other 10 disciples and it said that they
were indignant or they were frustrated.
They were mad.
They were jealous of
James and John for asking.
. And so the reason why is because they
wanted to have those seats, right?
So when we look at this, and this
is something I want us to not miss
here, these disciples, if we're
looking at Matthew chapter 20,
there's not a ton of chapters left.
There's a lot that's already happened
up to this point at the back end of
Jesus' life, the people that were
following Jesus the closest, were
more focused on their physician in
heaven than building God's kingdom.
I wanna say that.
The people that were closest to Jesus
when Jesus was about to die on the cross
were more worried about their position
in heaven than building God's kingdom.
Do you guys feel like you
can relate at times May?
That was just me.
I'm sitting here and I, and, and the
first thing I want to do in the Bible
whenever I read it, is to judge people.
Does anybody, does anybody
else read the Bible and judge?
Please.
Thank you.
I'm glad I'm not the only one.
I mean, I've been reading the book
of judges lately, and if you've been
reading the book of judges, that's all.
All you go is are they
ever gonna get this right?
Because it's like, oh, I, you know,
they forget the Lord and they begin to
serve all these other gods, and then
all these bad things happen to them
and then they repent and it's like,
oh, things are great for 40 years.
And then it happens over again
and it happens over again.
And I just wanna be like, come on guys.
And then I wake up one morning and I
look in the mirror and I say, come on.
because it seems like that's me too.
And so I can kind of relate with
these guys where I get so focused
on my position in heaven and I
forget about building God's kingdom.
And so I just, I think about this, right?
We end up worrying more
about ourselves, right?
Our comforts are needs.
For some of you, I know this
isn't true, but sometimes this
happens in church, your seat in
the church more than anything else.
and I think at times sometimes
we get distracted with wanting
to be in the service more than
we want to be able to serve as.
And so we worry more about our
position with Christ, right?
Our inward focus during the week, or even
at church, that we miss opportunities
to engage someone with the gospel or
invite them to church, or even talk to
a guest during our five minute break.
You, you all know this, right?
Is we had this five minute break to
be able to connect with people and
sometimes we're more focused on ourselves.
And this isn't, guys, I'm just,
I'm just saying let's be real.
Let's kind of think through, we all
sometimes get inward focused, right?
And the good thing is, is
that we're in good company,
cuz the disciples did it too.
But Jesus didn't leave them there.
And this is where we get to this
next part, right in verse 25.
So he gathers them all together, he
says, he calls 'em over and he said
them, you know that the rulers of the
Gentile Lord, them, Lord it over them.
And those in high positions
act as tyrants over them.
So when we look at this, basically
this is what Jesus is saying.
Worldly leaders care more about
their position over people and treat
people like they're better than.
and I even kind of went
a little bit further.
These religious leaders, these worldly
leaders cared more about serving and
securing their position as leaders
than the people that they were serving.
Sounds like our politics today, and that's
probably the most political thing I'll
ever say up here, but I think at times
our leaders in the world tend to think
more about their position being secured
and their wants that meet their needs
rather than the people that they're.
again, why am I saying that?
Because he's speaking about
worldly leaders who were
lording it over Gentiles, right?
So let's look then at verse 26, he says
this, it must not be like this among you.
So now let's look at this.
Is he talking to the disciples because
they're leaders or because they're
people who have the gospel message?
I believe it's because these
are people who have the gospel
message, which is something.
Something that people who
have the gospel message could
Lord it over people who don't.
They could begin to think that they're
better and they could begin to serve
themselves more than the people who
God has called them to go serve.
Right?
So Jesus is saying that those that are
carrying the gospel message in and through
your lives should not be selfish and self.
, and then he says verse 26
at the back end of verse 26.
It must not be like this among you.
Contrary on the contrary, whoever
wants to become great among you must
be your servant, and whoever wants to
be first among you must be your slave.
Well, that makes a little
bit of sense, right?
What, what should we be worrying
about if we've been given the gospel
message, not about how we can be
served, but how others can be served?
And this is the moment that I.
and I started thinking like,
a lot of us think, you ready?
But what if I don't wanna be first?
What, what if I don't, wanna be
the greatest among everybody?
Do I still need to serve people?
Because I'm telling you
guys, I, I, I do it.
I read the Bible and I wanna find an out.
I wanna find a way that the Lord
isn't gonna call me to step.
And do something that's difficult.
I want to find a way
to say, you know what?
I don't need to do that.
Oh, that's only for special people.
That's only for this group of
people and this group of people.
And, and when I looked at this, I couldn't
hide from him because he's not just
talking to leaders, he's talking to people
who have been given the gospel message.
And it's not about being first,
it's really about someone
who has given their lives to.
And so here's what I
have to say about that.
When it comes to the idea of being
first or to to be great, number one,
if you're saying I'm just a normal
Christian, God has never saved a normal
Christian, I'm gonna say that again.
God has never saved a normal Christian.
We are special, we are gifted, and we
are sent by God as called out Christians.
So if we want to say,
well, I don't wanna be.
That's not an option in the fact
of saying meaning like the idea
behind taking a seat in the back.
Right.
He has challenged us to go out
and to be the ones that lead the
example of who Jesus is, not to
serve our purposes, but to serve.
not only his, but other people.
And, and really, here's even something
that kind of brings more light to this.
In Jesus' example, towards the end
of his life, in John 13, verse 12
through 17, it says this, when Jesus
had washed their feet, and this is
them, the disciples or at the Lord's
supper, the, the last table, right?
Their, the reclining.
They're getting ready to
see Jesus be taken away.
They don't know.
And Jesus stops in the middle of their
dinner and he says this, when Jesus
had washed their feet and put on their
clothing, he reclined again to them.
And he says, do you know what I have done?
You call me teacher and Lord, and you
speak rightly since that's what I am.
So if I, your Lord and teacher have washed
her feet, you also ought to wash one
another's feet for I have given you an
example that you should do as I have done.
. Truly, I tell you, a servant is not
greater than his master, and a messenger
is not greater than the one who sent him.
If you know these things, you
are blessed if you do them.
What is Jesus saying here?
Jesus is the king of the
world, the Savior of the world.
They viewed him as teacher and
Lord, and if he humbled himself to.
How much more should those whom he
has saved follow his example, and this
is really where verse 28 comes in.
If you go back to Matthew 20, verse
28 says, just as the son man did not
come to serve, to be served, but to
serve and to give us life as a ransom.
I think it's interesting, and we've
studied this before as a church, the
verses that I just read about that,
that last supper and, and him washing.
, why would Jesus serve and show that
example right before his death?
Because it was such a critical piece for
us to understand the value of serving.
When Jesus served, it transformed and
changed lives because he served us.
We now have the ability to have
salvation, to be forgiven of our sins.
That's an amazing picture.
And then what did Jesus do?
He says, I now send you out.
He says, go therefore and make
disciples of all nations, baptizing
them in the name of the Father,
the Son and the Holy Spirit, right?
Teaching them all these things.
And, and I think about this in
this idea of Jesus served to
model how we are supposed to serve
sacrificially for the sake of others.
But I, I know what you're think.
. I don't have time to serve.
My life's busy.
Well, I've learned this, that I
don't think I have a, I don't think
I have an easier life than you.
And you don't have an easier life than me.
And I think every person
in the world is busy.
It's what we're busy with.
And then I would say this, our heart and
our mind behind what we're busy with.
Cuz I, I'm just telling you, I
have four kids and getting ready
to be in four different activities.
And if all I look at those are, I'm busy
and I don't have time to serve, I've.
That all four of those activities are
ways to serve not only my family, but
the kids that I'm gonna be coaching at
soccer and the families that are gonna
be on the sidelines while my kids are out
there practicing and I'm not playing on
my phone, but I'm gonna connect with them.
You know, it's, it's the opportunity
where we look at with our coworkers
and we know there are heads down and
we're working hard, but there's ways to
serve them by I'm gonna buy them a meal
to, I'm gonna serve them by listening
to the needs that they have in their
life and saying, Hey, can I come over
on Saturday and help you mow your.
you know, can I help you fix your mower?
That's not me.
I'll ask somebody else to do that.
But that may be you, right?
It, it's, it's coming with a
heart to serve and finding ways
to serve if we'll just listen and
really pick up our eyes and see.
So Jesus sets this standard to serve.
So why do we as a church,
serve the way we sh we serve?
Because it opens the doors
to share our faith, right?
People came from everywhere when
Jesus was healing, which is a form of.
People came from everywhere
to experience Jesus.
So when we think about practically
sharing our faith, it's not about knowing
the, the ro, what did we talk about?
The Roman roads or the three
circles or the, all the different
methods of sharing the gospel.
If you know those, those are
great, you should learn them.
But I think the greatest way to evangelize
is through our everyday lives, through
following Jesus, by living in community
and by serving those around us where we.
It is so valuable because we truly wanna
see people come to faith in Christ.
That's why we do what we do.
We don't do it to please God.
And I wanna make sure I, I'm clear
as, as all get out, we do not do
these things just because we're
trying to please a God who thinks.
If you don't do all these things
right, then you're not gonna be saved.
If you don't do all these things right,
I'm not gonna be pleased with you.
No.
We do these things out of the desire in
our heart for people to experience Jesus.
To experience forgiveness, to
experience a love that is unimaginable.
And if you truly have experienced that,
and if you've lost that, if you've missed
that, then here is my encouragement.
Today's a day where you drive back into
experiencing that love once again, so that
that love drives you back outward to share
the love of Christ with other people.
Cuz that's where it starts.
If you have been serving.
In this church or other people
with a heart that is not with joy.
I challenge you today to ask the
Lord to help you find joy in serving.
He, here's a beautiful thing.
Me and Brittany talk
about this all the time.
Whenever you plant a church,
you'll do anything to make sure
that the church is successful.
Britney hasn't been in this
service for four weeks, and you
know what she tells me every week?
I can't wait to go spend
some time with the kids.
I love investing with the kids.
They get to hear the gospel with the.
Here's the great thing.
My wife wants to be here in
service just as much as you guys I
hope, want to be here in service.
But she cares more about the
kingdom of God and that's not to
just raise her up, cuz I know many
of you serve in many different
ways, but I want to challenge you.
Don't serve with the wrong heart.
Know that you may be the one that is
serving so that somebody can hear the
gospel and one day give their lives to
Christ and you're serving for a purpose.
You may be the one that shares the gospel
with without one kid that finally get.
That says, I want to know Jesus.
You may be the one that leads
worship on Sunday, and you wonder if
anybody cares what you're saying or
worshiping, but you may be the one
that's leading them to the cross.
The God who shows forgiveness and
grace and mercy for someone that
can really experience forgiveness.
I don't know what area you serve in on
Sundays, but you may need to know that
what you're doing is making a difference
and your serving makes a differe.
Don't give up.
Don't back down.
Don't let the enemy deceive you.
I was just talking to Josh a little
bit about this is, I, I, I'm reminded
this, the enemy has to be loud
in order to get you distracted.
So when you're distracted,
it's the enemy being loud.
But I'll just tell you
this, the Lord whispers.
Well, you wanna know
why the Lord whispers?
Because we have to lean in.
, we have to lean in and the, when we
lean in, we experience Jesus, but the
enemy has to scream over his whisper.
And I say all this to
say, guys, don't give up.
Don't stop serving.
Don't start doing or stop doing
what you, but you have been doing.
But then those who maybe haven't
been able to, to see the fruit of,
of, of scenes people come to Christ.
What can you do?
You.
Of, so I wanna just give you some
examples, in our church where we've
seen life change through serving,
and then we're gonna take some
time to, to have an invitation.
But as a church, we
prioritize serving others.
If you haven't been a part of our
church for a long time, you may not know
this, but you guys that have been for a
while, you know, we prioritize serving.
Why do we do this?
Because we've seen live change.
I actually got a chance to reach
out to a couple of families
this week, week and ask this.
hey, are you at this church because you
had saw us serving and the answer was yes.
and it's actually Riverview Elementary.
We had served there multiple times,
not with the making sure that we
got Josh and Christie here or Emily.
It's not reason why we served,
just to make sure we got you here.
We served because we wanted to
just show love and that may be the
initial reason why they got here.
But what I loved is actually getting
some response back as the reason
why they're still here is because
of a lot of other reasons the.
The, the words being preached,
the love of of the people, right?
There's more things to this.
But serving opened the door for us
to get in and connect with people.
But this past week, we got to serve our
community at, the gym that I coach at.
We weren't planning to go there,
but we needed a project to do
because it was cold outside.
And I said, Hey, can we go
clean the gym that I coach at?
And she's like, sure.
So we went in and cleaned no expectations.
I didn't send her pictures
to say, Hey, give us credit.
She reached back out and said, Hey, I
was talking to my classes tonight that
I was coaching, and I was telling 'em
what your church did and none of 'em
really knew much about your church.
Can you send me all your church's
information and we'll share that
with our whole gym community?
I'm like, sure.
So I sent that to him.
That wasn't my goal, but God
opened the door for people to
hear more about inspiring hope.
The things we've done here at the Y M C A,
we just cleaned out the whole, preschool
or playground and it looks amazing and
our kids will get to experience it.
But a summer program for the Y M C A is
gonna get to experience that playground
cuz it hasn't been used in two years.
And you know what I've been
hearing why staff members and
why members asking, who did this?
Why are you doing this?
We serve because Jesus served.
Jesus came to serve so that other
people could experience hope.
Amen.
We as a church, will prioritize
serving because we want other
people to experience hope in Jesus.
And there's more and more stories of
things that we've done, and we brought
gifts to teachers again this week.
And I'm, I'm hoping that we continue to
do that because we want them to know that
we love them first and foremost, that
we love them and that Jesus loves them.
And we believe that God will, God
has opened doors and one, one of the
coolest things, and I'm gonna stop and,
and we're gonna move on even though.
It wasn't the reason why they were there.
Lauren and Brian showed up, took
a project that we did, Easter
egg hunt out in the park, right?
Was it Easter Egg hunt or something?
Halloween.
I don't remember what it was.
Okay.
Halloween.
There we go.
I can't remember what it was.
Halloween and they showed up
and there was five people.
Now you showed up because of an invite,
but you guys made the statement that
you felt more comfortable after you
built relationships with people cause
they connected with you to be able
to come to church that next week
because of the event and willingness.
And I, I go back to that day and I
remember that day being so mad, so
mad, and I was like bound to determine
we were gonna have that event.
So we just didn't cancel
it even though it rained.
And I'm so glad we didn't because we have
Lauren and Brian and their family and,
and I look at this and saying like, we
serve because we know God will open doors.
So does serving allow
us to share the gospel?
We've seen it in our church.
Does living in c.
allow people to hear
the gospel and respond.
Absolutely.
We've seen fruit from it.
Joe and Kristen aren't here, but
whenever they got to be a part of,
well, Kristen's serving whenever they
got to be a part of our inspire group
for a while, I believe that helped them
feel closer to our community and one
day they gave their lives to Christ.
Soon after that, I think about
just following Jesus, and I've
seen many of you as you've Jesus,
that you've got the opportunity to
share your faith with other people.
Guys.
That to me is evangelism it.
It is not knowing all the right things.
Although it's good to know more
things, it's not about having every
single evangelism track memorized,
although those things are good.
It's about literally just being yourself
and following Jesus and experiencing
that love and then living it out.
And we will.
And we have seen people
get their lives to Christ.
And so my challenge to you as we take
some time, dare an invitation, is, Number
one, I think you need to ask yourself
this question, and I think this is why I
feel like I brought this up earlier on.
If Jesus has changed your life, if you
can say yes to that, then your response
is that God has called you and equipped
you to share your faith with others
through following Jesus, living in
community and serving those around you.
It's plain and simple and, and
you don't need to miss that
if Jesus has changed your.
There's no reason why that God will
not use you through those three things.
He desires to use you.
He has called you to go be
the light of Christ to those
around you through those ways.
Number two, if you haven't given
your life to Christ, if you haven't
experienced a life change with
Jesus, that's where it starts.
Cuz I'll tell you this, I've been there.
I've been there in that other other
place where I didn't know Jesus
and I tried just doing the right.
And I'll just tell you,
you'll never do enough.
It'll never satisfy you.
It, it's not gonna work.
You can go out there and try to do all
these great things and serve people and
do great things, but it'll never work.
You need to come to Jesus.
And so if you need to give your life to
Jesus today, that is my challenge to you.
Don't wait.
On a Sunday night, almost 12 years
ago, I was sitting in a room full of
12 people in an auditorium of about.
Or 12 people because that's Sunday
Night Church back about 12 years ago.
And the pastor challenged me,
he challenged everybody there.
If you haven't given your life to
Jesus, today is the day of salvation.
And I'm so thankful that I got out
of the way and I raised my hand and I
said I needed to give my life to Jesus.
And that day transformed my life because
I began to take steps closer to knowing
who Jesus was, cuz I didn't know it all,
but I knew enough that I needed to be.
And so here's the thing.
There's days that we do things
differently, but today is a day where
I want to challenge you with this.
If you have not given your life to Christ
and you desire to, today, I'm gonna
challenge you boldly to raise your hand.
And in this room, we're all
looking around in this room.
If you raise your hand, nobody's
gonna stare and point and laugh.
You know what they're gonna do?
They're gonna praise God.
So my challenge today, if there's
someone in this room that needs to give
life to Christ, that you would raise.
That you would say you need Jesus.
And here's the cool part, that as
a church, we will pray together
and we will walk alongside you and
we'll encourage you in your faith.
And we will not let
you do this life alone.
We will be the light of Jesus
because God has transformed our life.
So I challenge you right
now in this moment.
If you wanna give your life to
Jesus, just raise your hand.
Just raise your hand.
Now if there's anybody in this room.
If not, hey, that's fine.
But my challenge is always.
For you to be bold before the Lord, okay?
What I'm gonna do is I'm gonna pray
for us, but if you're holding back,
not raising your hand, but you wanna
have a conversation about who Jesus
is, don't leave today before you
come talk to me or someone else.
Don't leave today before you
get a chance to experience a
personal relationship with Jesus.
So let's pray.
Lord Jesus, we love you.
God.
We are so thank.
That your word reminds us how important
serving is, Lord, that your word
reminds us that when we serve other
people, get the opportunity to hear
the gospel and give their lives to you.
God, this whole evangelism series is not
about just another series and another
opportunity to push something else, Lord,
but it's just a reminder of what we've
been given through our relationship.
That you have so transformed our lives,
Lord, that there are people around us
that need to be transformed with that same
love, grace and mercy that you have given.
So God, I pray that you challenge each
person in this room, Lord, that has given
their lives to you, that they begin to
not feel the pressure to do these things,
but Lord, they feel the love and the
desire of the outflow relationship with
you to follow you closer so that other
people can experience relationship.
To live in communities so that they
can be encouraged and sent out to share
their faith, and that they can begin to
prioritize serving those around them so
that people will come to faith in you.
But God, I know in a room this big that
there's someone in this room that may
be struggling with their salvation,
whether they've given their lives.
And if that's their next step, Lord,
and I'm praying that you give them
the boldness, Lord, to stand up.
During this time, during music, Lord,
they come back to the back and they
come back and they have a conversation
about how it is to follow you.
God, give them faith.
Give them faith.
Give us all faith, Lord to go out and
fulfill the calling that you've called
us to be sharing our faith this week.
Lord, we just pray this
in your heaven name.
Amen.